# Entry 1: Deciding what I wanted.
##### 10/10/25
## Reasearch on Astrophysics and similar areas
The first thing that came to my mind for the freedom project was physics. It's my favorite subject by far, and I love learning about many topics such as waves, gravity, and just about anything related to how things work. As I was researching the topics that interested me I discovered that there's one area that conbines physics with another one of my favorite things, astronomy. I chose astrophysics as my main interest, but I'm still looking forward to explore other areas such as data science and informatics, so maybe in the future I'll do internships for all of these and maybe even study something related to them.

When I was researching about Astrophysics I found relevant information about it in
[Careers in astrophysics - School of Mathematics and Physics](https://smp.uq.edu.au/research/astrophysics/study/careers-astrophysics)
by the University of Queensland, in Australia, and [Analysis: How AI is helping astronomers study the universe | PBS News](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/science/analysis-how-ai-is-helping-astronomers-study-the-universe) In these websites I really could see how it would be like to be an astrophysicist, which only made me even more thrilled to become one, and one way technology is used in this area (AI). Some other websites I used to reasearch were [To boldly know what no one has known before ](https://attheu.utah.edu/facultystaff/to-boldly-know-what-no-one-has-known-before/), [What are some of the issues astronomers face when trying to use ground-based telescopes? - Quora](https://www.quora.com/What-are-some-of-the-issues-astronomers-face-when-trying-to-use-ground-based-telescopes), in this two articles I was able to read aboout the kind of stuff that astronomers see and the kind of work they do. I was also able to see some of the challenges that they go through which made me curious about what new inventions could be created to help astronomers overcome these challenges more easily. Then for my third topic, Astroinformatics, I read [Exploring Astroinformatics: Bridging Astronomy and Data Science - David Maiolo](https://www.davidmaiolo.com/2024/02/23/exploring-astroinformatics-bridging-astronomy-data-science/) and [Astrostatistics and Astroinformatics Portal
](https://asaip.psu.edu/astroinformatics-in-a-nutshell/#:~:text=Astroinformatics%20enables%20data%20integration%2C%20data%20mining%2C%20information,search%20and%20discovery%20tools%20*%20Visualization%20environmentsastroinformatics-in-a-nutshell/#:~:text=Astroinformatics%20enables%20data%20integration%2C%20data%20mining%2C%20information,search%20and%20discovery%20tools%20*%20Visualization%20environments). both of these sites have a lot of information about Astroinformatics, what it is and what Astroinformatics do, which helped me understand better what it is, and see how I could be interested in it.

## EDP
My step #1 was basically finding what I wanted to do, wether it was physics, astronomy, data science, astroinformatics or anything else that might interest me. I had to do a lot of research about the things that interested me and at the end I arrived at Astrophysics. I then did a bit of research in how technology is being used in that field and I found out that of course, they use telescopes to observe the sky, but they also use AI which helps Astrophyscisist interpret what they are looking at in telescopes, make images look more detailed, and process more information faster.

## Skills
After doing all this research and typing this blog I've gained a few skills. First of all, I learned that I should plan out what I'm going to do before I do so, and also that I need to determine how much work a task is gonna take, specially if I'm going to leave it for later. When I started doing this blog I was overwhelmed by the amount of research I had to do and all the typing too, and so I thought that maybe I wasn't going to be able to do it in time, but here we are, and so this takes me to my next point. I also learned that even when something seems too much for you to do before a certain due date, you can still do it in time without the need to rush everything.
[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md) 
